.TH M2 7 "March 2026" "Project N2" "User Command"

.SH NAME
.B m2
\- Manage M2 customization directories for Project N2

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B m2
.I subcommand

.SH DESCRIPTION
Command
.B m2
provides management for M2 directories, which are the user customization
layer of Project N2.  M2 directories hold personal configurations for bash,
vim, tmux, git, and custom executables.

.SH SUBCOMMANDS

.TP
.B create
Creates a demo M2 directory at
.BR ~/.m2\-00\-demo .
The demo directory contains example configurations for all supported tools
and is a good starting point for customization.  If the directory already
exists, the command exits with an error.

.TP
.B list
Lists all M2 directories found under
.BR $HOME .
Directories are listed in lexical order (the same order they are loaded).

.TP
.B help
Shows this man page.  Same as
.BR "man m2" .

.P
Tab completion is available for all
.B m2
subcommands.

.SH M2 DIRECTORY STRUCTURE

An M2 directory is any directory directly under
.B $HOME
whose name starts with
.BR .m2 .
M2 directories are discovered and loaded in lexical order, so later
directories can override earlier ones.

.SS Naming Convention

.EX
    ~/.m2                   (simplest form)
    ~/.m2\-10\-personal      (numbered for ordering)
    ~/.m2\-20\-work          (loaded after personal)
.EE

The infixes
.B \-10\-
and
.B \-20\-
control the loading order.

.SS Directory Layout

A typical M2 directory has the following structure:

.EX
    ~/.m2/
    +-- bash/
    |   +-- profile.d/
    |   |   +-- 00\-paths.sh
    |   +-- rc.d/
    |       +-- 00\-features.sh
    +-- exec/
    |   +-- my\-command
    +-- git/
    |   +-- config
    +-- tmux/
    |   +-- conf
    +-- vim/
        +-- 00\-colorscheme.vim
.EE

.SS Bash Profile Scripts
.B bash/profile.d/*.sh

Sourced once during login.  Use for PATH modifications, environment variable
exports, and other non-idempotent configurations.  Files are sourced in
ASCII order.

.SS Bash RC Scripts
.B bash/rc.d/*.sh

Sourced each time an interactive shell starts (including
.BR "source ~/.bashrc" ).
Use for aliases, functions, shell options, and other idempotent
configurations.  Files are sourced in ASCII order.

Do not modify
.B PATH
here; use
.B profile.d
instead to avoid repeated prepending.

.SS Executables
.B exec/

This directory is automatically added to
.BR PATH .
Place custom scripts and executables here.

.SS Git Config
.B git/config

Included into the global git configuration via
.BR git\-config (1)
include directives.  N2 supports up to 4 M2 git configs.  They are
re-linked on each bash startup.

.SS Tmux Config
.B tmux/conf

Sourced by tmux after the N2 base configuration.  All files in the
.B tmux/
directory are sourced.

.SS Vim Config
.B vim/*.vim

Vim configuration files, sourced in ASCII order after the N2 base vim
configuration.

.SH DEMO M2

The
.B m2 create
command generates a demo M2 directory at
.B ~/.m2\-00\-demo
with the following example files:

.TP
.B bash/rc.d/00\-features.sh
Commented-out feature variable examples (status line, command expansion,
thick separator, auto-attach tmux, hostname override, etc.).

.TP
.B bash/rc.d/01\-formats.sh
Commented-out style variable overrides for PS1 elements.

.TP
.B bash/rc.d/03\-hooks.sh
Commented-out hook examples
.RB ( n2_hook_postcd ", " n2_hook_ps1_cwd ", " n2_hook_label_* ).

.TP
.B bash/rc.d/10\-tmux.sh
A commented-out tmux shortcut alias
.B t
for quickly creating and attaching sessions.

.TP
.B bash/profile.d/00\-paths.sh
An example PATH extension script.

.TP
.B exec/m2\-hello
A sample executable demonstrating the exec directory feature.

.TP
.B git/config
A sample git config with push and user settings.

.TP
.B tmux/conf
Commented-out tmux configuration examples.

.TP
.B vim/00\-colorscheme.vim
A commented-out colorscheme example.

.TP
.B vim/01\-gitcommit.vim
A commented-out git commit editing configuration.

.SH VERSION CONTROL

It is recommended to version-control M2 directories with git.  The
.B n2 update
and
.B n2 status
commands operate on all discovered M2 directories.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR n2 (7),
.BR bash (1),
.BR tmux (1),
.BR vim (1),
.BR git (1),
.BR git\-config (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Hengyang Zhao <hzhao877502@gmail.com>
