.TH N2 7 "March 2026" "Project N2" "User Command"

.SH NAME
.B n2
\- The Final Solution of Dot-Files Management in Unix Systems

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B n2
.I subcommand

.SH DESCRIPTION
Command
.B n2
facilitates management and information querying for project N2.  Project N2
provides version-controlled initialization files for common Unix tools, such as
bash, vim, tmux, git, etc.

N2 requires bash 4.x or later.

.SH N2 SUBCOMMANDS

.TP
.B help
Shows this man page. Same as
.BR "man n2" .

.TP
.B update
Updates project N2 and all discovered M2 repos by issuing
.B git pull
on the current branch.

.TP
.B status
Checks status of project N2 and all discovered M2 repos by issuing
.B git status
on the current branches.

.TP
.B link\-gitconfigs
Re-links git configs from M2 directories to the static entries under the N2
volatile directory.  This is also run automatically when bash starts.

.TP
.B create\-m2
Creates a demo M2 directory at
.BR ~/.m2\-00\-demo .
Deprecated in favor of
.BR "m2 create" .

.TP
.B list\-m2
Enumerates M2 directories. Deprecated in favor of
.BR "m2 list" .

.P
Tab completion is available for all
.B n2
subcommands.

.SH M2 COMMAND

The
.B m2
command provides M2 directory management.  See
.BR m2 (7)
for details.

.SH M2 DIRECTORY

Project N2 allows customization by discovering M2 directories and picking up
configurations under them.  An M2 directory should be placed directly under
.B $HOME
and
.B .m2
should be the first three characters in its name.  Valid examples are:

.EX
    ~/.m2
    ~/.m2\-10\-personal
    ~/.m2\-20\-work
.EE

M2 directories are discovered in lexical order and the configurations are
loaded in the same order.  That means, in the previous examples, configurations
under
.B ~/.m2\-20\-work
will override those in
.B ~/.m2\-10\-personal
when they conflict.

.TP
.B ~/.m2*/bash/profile.d/*.sh
Bash profile scripts.  PATH extensions and other non-idempotent configs
are recommended to go here.  Files are sourced in ASCII order and recommended
to be named like
.IR 00\-example.sh .

.TP
.B ~/.m2*/bash/rc.d/*.sh
Bash rc scripts.  Interactive enhancement configurations, e.g., alias and
function definitions, and other idempotent configurations are recommended to go
here.  Files are sourced in ASCII order and recommended to be named like
.IR 00\-example.sh .

Note: Do not do PATH append/prepending here.  Use the profile.d directory
instead.  Files under
.B rc.d
are sourced every time
.B source ~/.bashrc
is run, and PATH would be prepended multiple times.

.TP
.B ~/.m2*/git/config
Git config file.  Included via
.BR git\-config (1)
include directives.  Up to 4 M2 git configs are supported.

.TP
.B ~/.m2*/tmux/conf
Tmux configuration file.  Sourced by tmux after the N2 tmux config loads.
Additional files in
.B tmux/
are also sourced.

.TP
.B ~/.m2*/vim/*.vim
Vim rc files.  Files are sourced in ASCII order and recommended to be named
like
.IR 00\-example.vim .

.TP
.B ~/.m2*/exec/
Executables.  This directory is automatically included in the
.B PATH
variable.

.SH BASH PS1 PROMPT

N2 provides a rich, multi-line PS1 prompt.  The first line shows (when
applicable):

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B user@host
\- colored differently for root
.IP \(bu
.B (chroot)
\- debian chroot indicator, if set
.IP \(bu
.B &N
\- number of background jobs, if any
.IP \(bu
.B ^N
\- shell nesting level, if greater than 1
.IP \(bu
.B *session*
\- GNU screen session name, if in a screen session
.IP \(bu
.B n(N)
\- nice value, if non-zero (Linux only)
.IP \(bu
.B repo[branch]
\- git repository and branch indicator
.IP \(bu
.B rwx
\- permission bits of the current directory, if not fully accessible
.IP \(bu
current working directory
.RE

A second line may show pinned variables and the physical cwd (if it differs
from the logical cwd).  The final line shows the session label (if any),
the dollar/hash prompt sign, and the IFS value (if non-default).

.SS Label Prefix
When a session label is set (via
.BR lab ),
each prompt line is prefixed with a configurable string.  See the
.B N2_FMT_PS1_HEAD_PREFIX
,
.B N2_FMT_PS1_MID_PREFIX
, and
.B N2_FMT_PS1_TAIL_PREFIX
variables.

.SH COMMAND EXPANSION

Before each command executes, N2 prints an expansion line showing:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
a sequential command number within the input
.IP \(bu
the resolved command (full path for external commands, or prefixed with
.BR builtin ,
.BR function ,
or
.B keyword
for others)
.IP \(bu
a timestamp
.RE

For example:

.EX
    [1] -> /usr/bin/grep pattern file (14:30:00 Mar 18)
    [2] -> builtin echo done (14:30:00 Mar 18)
.EE

This is controlled by
.BR N2_ENABLE_CMD_EXPANSION .

.SH STATUS LINE

After each command completes, N2 prints a right-aligned status line showing
the timestamp, wall-clock duration, and exit status.  Piped commands show
the exit status of each pipelet.  Controlled by
.BR N2_ENABLE_STATUS_LINE .

.SH TMUX STATUS BAR

N2 provides a tmux status bar showing:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
hostname (abbreviated if longer than 12 chars) and session name
.IP \(bu
the current TTY path if the session is multi-attached
.IP \(bu
window list
.IP \(bu
system load / number of CPU cores
.IP \(bu
date and time
.RE

The
.B tmux\-aux
helper command provides the data (see
.BR "UTILITY COMMANDS" ).
Mouse mode is enabled by default.

.SH MODIFIED COMMANDS

.TP
.B cd
A modified version from Petar Marinov's acd_func.  Maintains a directory
stack of up to 10 entries, removing duplicates.

.TP
.B cd \-\-
Print the
.B cd
history (directory stack) using
.BR dirs\ \-v .

.TP
.B cd \-#
Change to history item
.IR # .

.TP
.B jq
When
.BR jq (1)
and
.BR less (1)
are both available, the
.B jq
alias pipes output through
.B less \-FR
with color enabled for interactive terminals.

.SH ALIASES

.TP
.B bashtrap \fR[\fIlabel\fR]
.TQ
.B lab \fR[\fIlabel\fR]
While true, do bash.  The session will be restarted on normal exit.  Use
exit code 200 to escape.  If
.I label
is given, the session is labeled and the hook
.BI n2_hook_label_ label
is called if defined.  Tab completion is available for
.BR lab .

.TP
.B n2_reset_ifs
Resets IFS to its default value
.RB ( "space, tab, newline" ).

.SH UTILITY COMMANDS

These commands are provided in the N2
.B exec/
directory.

.TP
.B regex\-test \fIpattern\fR [\fIstring ...\fR]
An interactive environment for testing bash regular expressions.  If strings
are given as arguments, they are tested against the pattern.  Otherwise,
strings are read interactively from stdin.  Shows match groups and lengths.

.TP
.B perm\-stack \fR[\fIpath\fR]
Prints the permission stack of the given path (defaults to the current
directory) and all parent directories up to
.BR / .

.TP
.B args \fR[\fIarg ...\fR]
Prints all arguments with their indices, useful for debugging argument
quoting and splitting.

.TP
.B tmux\-aux \fIkey\fR
Helper for the tmux status bar.  Supported keys:
.BR load
(system load average),
.BR ncpu
(number of CPU cores),
.BR hostabbrev
(abbreviated hostname, respects
.BR N2_PS1_HOSTNAME ).
Works on Linux, Darwin, and FreeBSD.

.TP
.B github\-token\-quota \fItoken\fR
Queries the GitHub API rate limit for the given personal access token.

.SH FEATURE VARIABLES

These variables can be set in M2 rc or profile scripts to control N2
behavior.

.TP
.B N2_EXTRA_M2_DIRS
Specifies additional M2 directories to use, in addition to the
auto-discovered
.B ~/.m2*
directories.  Value is a comma-separated list of absolute paths.
Non-existent directories are silently ignored.  Directories are appended
after the auto-discovered ones, so they are loaded last (highest priority).
Example:
.EX
    export N2_EXTRA_M2_DIRS=/opt/shared-m2,/srv/team-m2
.EE

.TP
.B N2_ENABLE_STATUS_LINE
Enables the status line after each command.  Default:
.BR yes .

.TP
.B N2_THICK_SEPARATOR
Uses a thick separator (an extra line of filler characters) instead of
an underlined status line.  Useful when a terminal does not support underline.
Default:
.BR no .
Automatically enabled when
.BR TERM=linux .

.TP
.B N2_THICK_SEPARATOR_CHAR
Overrides the filler character in the thick separator.  Default:
.BR ~ .

.TP
.B N2_ENABLE_CMD_EXPANSION
Enables command expansion.  Before execution, each command is analyzed and its
resolved target is printed.  Default:
.BR yes .

.TP
.B N2_ENABLE_EXPLICIT_EOF
Explicitly marks EOF if the last command did not end with a newline character.
This ensures that the next prompt will always be printed at the line beginning.
Default:
.BR no .

.TP
.B N2_CMD_EXPANSION_SINK
Overrides the target fd/file for command expansion output.  Default:
.BR &2 .
Allowed formats are
.BI / path/to/file
or
.BI & N
where
.I N
is an open file descriptor.

.TP
.B N2_CMD_EXPANSION_SINK_PROXY_FD
Overrides the temporary file descriptor used to relay the command expansion
string.  Default:
.BR 99 .

.TP
.B N2_AUTO_ATTACH_TMUX
Whether to exec tmux automatically upon a remote login.
Valid options:
.BR yes ", " no
(default).

.TP
.B N2_PS1_HOSTNAME
Forces using this as hostname info in the bash PS1 prompt and tmux status
bar.  Needs
.B export
to affect tmux.

.TP
.B N2_REPORT_UNBOUND_VARIABLE
Reports unbound (undefined) variable substitution by enabling
.BR "set \-u"
during command execution and disabling it afterward.
A known side effect is that many completion scripts break.
Valid options:
.BR yes ", " no
(default).

.TP
.B N2_DEBUG
Enables debug output during sourcing of N2 files.  When set to
.BR yes ,
each sourced file path is printed to stdout.  Default:
.BR no .

.SH STYLE VARIABLES

These variables override the terminal formatting (ANSI escape sequences) for
various PS1 and status elements.  Set them in M2 rc scripts.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_HOSTNAME\fR, \fBN2_FMT_PS1_HOSTNAME_ROOT
Hostname style in PS1 (normal and root).

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_USERNAME\fR, \fBN2_FMT_PS1_USERNAME_ROOT
Username style in PS1 (normal and root).

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_USERHOST_PUNCT\fR, \fBN2_FMT_PS1_USERHOST_PUNCT_ROOT
User@host punctuation style in PS1 (normal and root).

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_IFS\fR, \fBN2_FMT_PS1_IFS_VALUE
Non-default IFS label and value style in PS1.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_CHROOT\fR, \fBN2_FMT_PS1_CHROOT_ROOT
Chroot indicator style in PS1 (normal and root).

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_BG_INDICATOR
Background jobs indicator style in PS1.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_SHLVL_INDICATOR
Shell nesting level indicator style in PS1.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_SCREEN_INDICATOR
GNU screen session indicator style in PS1.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_GIT_INDICATOR
Git repo/branch indicator style in PS1.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_CWD
Current working directory style in PS1.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_PERM_GOOD\fR, \fBN2_FMT_PS1_PERM_BAD
Permission indicator style (good and bad).

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_PHYSICAL_CWD
Physical cwd indicator style in PS1.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_DOLLAR_HASH
Dollar/hash prompt sign style in PS1.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_LABEL
Session label style in PS1.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_PREFIX
Label prefix style in PS1.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_HEAD_PREFIX\fR, \fBN2_FMT_PS1_MID_PREFIX\fR, \fBN2_FMT_PS1_TAIL_PREFIX
Content of the prefix string for each prompt line when a session label is
active.  These are not style variables but literal prefix strings.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_STATUS_OK
Status-ok indicator style.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_STATUS_ERROR
Status-error indicator style.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_STATUS_HRULE
Status line horizontal rule style.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_CMD_EXPANSIONS
Command expansion line style.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_FORCE_NEWLINE
Style for the explicit EOF / no-newline indicator.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PINNED_KEY\fR, \fBN2_FMT_PINNED_VALUE\fR, \fBN2_FMT_PINNED_PUNCT
Pinned variable display style (key, value, punctuation).

.SH HOOKS

Declare the following functions to achieve customized behaviors.  N2 will
call these functions if they are declared, or use default behavior otherwise.

.TP
.B function n2_hook_ps1_cwd
Reformats the cwd field in PS1.  Argument
.B $1
is the cwd.  Reformatted cwd should be inline-echoed.  This hook is often
useful when one wants to highlight a specific field in the cwd; the
.B __n2_fmt
and
.B __n2_inline_echo
functions may be helpful.

.TP
.B function n2_hook_postcd
Performs extra work after each
.B cd
command.  Arguments are ignored.

.TP
.BI "function n2_hook_label_" LABEL
Extra initialization for a labeled session
.I LABEL
in
.B lab
or
.BR bashtrap .
The helper function
.B n2_define_pinned
.I VAR_NAME VAR_VALUE
can be used to define bash variables to be printed along with the PS1.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR m2 (7),
.BR bash (1),
.BR tmux (1),
.BR vim (1),
.BR git (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Hengyang Zhao <hzhao877502@gmail.com>
